README.md, before:

[![Maintainability](https://api.codeclimate.com/v1/badges/9b3d0af20438824ee812/maintainability)](https://codeclimate.com/github/Lambda-School-Labs/signlingo-be/maintainability)  [![Test Coverage](https://api.codeclimate.com/v1/badges/9b3d0af20438824ee812/test_coverage)](https://codeclimate.com/github/Lambda-School-Labs/signlingo-be/test_coverage)

# Sign Lingo

## Table of Contents

- **[Overview](#overview)**<br>
- **[API Endpoints](#api-endpoints)**<br>
- **[Credits](#credits)**<br>

## <a name='overview'></a>Overview
This database allows users to login, register, and participate in american sign language flashcard lessons, exercises, and quizzes. Currently the only levels available are for the alphabet. <br>
- Type **yarn install** to download all deps<br>
- Type **nodemon index.js** to continously run dev env server (you will need to have nodemon installed globally -> "**npm install -g nodemon**"), we were having problems running nodemon locally<br>
- Back end is deployed to production (even thought it says staging in the name) at [Heroku](https://signlingo-staging.herokuapp.com/) <br>
- Data Base Schema is here: [DB SCHEMA](https://dbdesigner.page.link/iEg1SoCNyGXD7KEt6)<br>

## API Endpoints

### Authentication
Method | Endpoint | Body/Params (required) | Body (optional) | Notes
| ----- | ----------------- | -------------------- | --------------------- | ------------------ |
POST | /user/signup | okta access token | N/A | Finds user in database via okta_uid, or adds them to the database and initializes their levels. Returns the users okta_uid |

### Authentication Request and Response Body Examples

- **/user/signup** POST user -> request body example (okta access token)
```
{
    "accessToken": {
        "value": "eyJraWQiOiJsaThvR2dYNUNiTXQtcjdCb2ZvQkZUNEY2YlhXNUxyY1hkckRydFd2ME93IiwiYWxnIjoiUlMyNTYifQ.eyJ2ZXIiOjEsImp0aSI6IkFULlhyVzBOWGlTYXo3TkdFRkxYLWYtWFpJdThtUy0xUHJ3YkxZQVZkS0ctSUUiLCJpc3MiOiJodHRwczovL2Rldi0xMDcyODkub2t0YS5jb20vb2F1dGgyL2RlZmF1bHQiLCJhdWQiOiJhcGk6Ly9kZWZhdWx0IiwiaWF0IjoxNTkxOTgyODIxLCJleHAiOjE1OTE5ODY0MjEsImNpZCI6IjBvYWVudG92bUMyemtZeUZaNHg2IiwidWlkIjoiMDB1ZTc4ZWw0T2ZjNEg0N3A0eDYiLCJzY3AiOlsiZW1haWwiLCJwcm9maWxlIiwib3BlbmlkIl0sInN1YiI6ImphY2tzb24ub2dsZXMyOEBnbWFpbC5jb20ifQ.nPiPx5p80dFJpQGLLqGrvALS3qKefuta8wWYpjYBxA0bm_qLICgebJe2jgJxx90LcYMHM6UDvz6DFgBz6JXv38qchY-Mk-rraOAltwL9__o4sN1UU4IoB3_3a5xv5w-ffXqY87zypAXzejGZKHcy7CRurgkMM6J232XN08p8GktG3H1cUf23vJKFsnsPyU5kpEf9CJVwWgluA8ca3Nsuwovfg4cJq5U_FhYHt5OxOOAQe9pKPseKEnfOnMsldqRkcbSsNOony1IYbqzuZMcg40OMLDuifGFGs4AS9inW9Tr8DC6C-EcYJXmwtz6TQDOtMcysis9m4VA1xeCaGNw42g",
        "accessToken": "eyJraWQiOiJsaThvR2dYNUNiTXQtcjdCb2ZvQkZUNEY2YlhXNUxyY1hkckRydFd2ME93IiwiYWxnIjoiUlMyNTYifQ.eyJ2ZXIiOjEsImp0aSI6IkFULlhyVzBOWGlTYXo3TkdFRkxYLWYtWFpJdThtUy0xUHJ3YkxZQVZkS0ctSUUiLCJpc3MiOiJodHRwczovL2Rldi0xMDcyODkub2t0YS5jb20vb2F1dGgyL2RlZmF1bHQiLCJhdWQiOiJhcGk6Ly9kZWZhdWx0IiwiaWF0IjoxNTkxOTgyODIxLCJleHAiOjE1OTE5ODY0MjEsImNpZCI6IjBvYWVudG92bUMyemtZeUZaNHg2IiwidWlkIjoiMDB1ZTc4ZWw0T2ZjNEg0N3A0eDYiLCJzY3AiOlsiZW1haWwiLCJwcm9maWxlIiwib3BlbmlkIl0sInN1YiI6ImphY2tzb24ub2dsZXMyOEBnbWFpbC5jb20ifQ.nPiPx5p80dFJpQGLLqGrvALS3qKefuta8wWYpjYBxA0bm_qLICgebJe2jgJxx90LcYMHM6UDvz6DFgBz6JXv38qchY-Mk-rraOAltwL9__o4sN1UU4IoB3_3a5xv5w-ffXqY87zypAXzejGZKHcy7CRurgkMM6J232XN08p8GktG3H1cUf23vJKFsnsPyU5kpEf9CJVwWgluA8ca3Nsuwovfg4cJq5U_FhYHt5OxOOAQe9pKPseKEnfOnMsldqRkcbSsNOony1IYbqzuZMcg40OMLDuifGFGs4AS9inW9Tr8DC6C-EcYJXmwtz6TQDOtMcysis9m4VA1xeCaGNw42g",
        "expiresAt": 1591986423,
        "tokenType": "Bearer",
        "scopes": [
            "openid",
            "profile",
            "email"
        ],
        "authorizeUrl": "https://dev-107289.okta.com/oauth2/default/v1/authorize",
        "userinfoUrl": "https://dev-107289.okta.com/oauth2/default/v1/userinfo"
    }
}
```
- **/user/signup** POST user -> successful LOGIN response example
```
{
    "foundUser": true,
    "userFound": "Found the user already in users table",
    "foundit": [
        {
            "id": 7,
            "okta_uid": "00ue78el4Ofc4H47p4x6"
        }
    ],
    "okta_uid": "00ue78el4Ofc4H47p4x6"
}
```

### Levels
Method | Endpoint | Body/Params (required) | Body (optional) | Notes
| ----- | ----------------- | -------------------- | --------------------- | ------------------ |
GET | /levels | N/A | N/A | Returns all the levels in the database. |
GET | /:oktaUID | okta_uid in params | N/A | Returns all user_level table data for a particular user via okta_uid passed as param. |
POST | /:oktaUID | array of level id's to add, okta_uid in params | N/A | Adds missing levels to user account informed by levels ids inside levels array, and the okta_uid passed as params |

### Levels Request and Response Body Examples

- **/levels** GET all levels in database -> successful response example
```
[
    {
        "id": 1,
        "name": "ABCDE"
    },
    {
        "id": 2,
        "name": "FGHIJ"
    },
    {
        "id": 3,
        "name": "KLMNO"
    },
    {
        "id": 4,
        "name": "PQRST"
    },
    {
        "id": 5,
        "name": "UVWXYZ"
    }
]
```

- **/:oktaUID** GET all user levels for single user -> successful response example 
```
[
    {
        "id": 4,
        "okta_uid": "00ue78el4Ofc4H47p4x6",
        "level_id": 1,
        "completed_flashcards": null,
        "completed_exercises": null,
        "completed_quiz": null
    },
    {
        "id": 5,
        "okta_uid": "00ue78el4Ofc4H47p4x6",
        "level_id": 2,
        "completed_flashcards": null,
        "completed_exercises": null,
        "completed_quiz": null
    },
    {
        "id": 6,
        "okta_uid": "00ue78el4Ofc4H47p4x6",
        "level_id": 5,
        "completed_flashcards": null,
        "completed_exercises": null,
        "completed_quiz": null
    },
    {
        "id": 7,
        "okta_uid": "00ue78el4Ofc4H47p4x6",
        "level_id": 3,
        "completed_flashcards": null,
        "completed_exercises": null,
        "completed_quiz": null
    },
    {
        "id": 8,
        "okta_uid": "00ue78el4Ofc4H47p4x6",
        "level_id": 4,
        "completed_flashcards": null,
        "completed_exercises": null,
        "completed_quiz": null
    }
]
```
- **/levels/:oktaUID** POST missing levels to user account -> Successful response body example
```
response body goes here... tbd
```

## Credits
### Project Manager
[Michael Famurewa](https://github.com/viscountfam)

### Full Stack Devs
[Jackson Ogles](https://github.com/cjogles) <br>
[Natalia Beckstead](https://github.com/NataliaBeckstead) <br>
[Bryan Bilek](https://github.com/bryanbilek) <br>
[Krisda Luengthada](https://github.com/biskoi) <br>

## Environment Variables

ISSUER<br>

## Contributing

When contributing to this repository, please first discuss the change you wish to make via issue, email, or any other method with the owners of this repository before making a change.

Please note we have a [code of conduct](./code_of_conduct.md). Please follow it in all your interactions with the project.

### Issue/Bug Request

 **If you are having an issue with the existing project code, please submit a bug report under the following guidelines:**

 - As of 5-26-2020 all code is up to date and working 100%.


### Feature Requests

 - Adding the ability to allow users to register/login via Google and Facebook.
 - Updating schema, I have provided a video and db design in the Signlingo channel.

### Pull Requests

If you have developed a patch, bug fix, or new feature that would improve this app, please submit a pull request. It is best to communicate your ideas with the developers first before investing a great deal of time into a pull request to ensure that it will mesh smoothly with the project.

Remember that this project is licensed under the MIT license, and by submitting a pull request, you agree that your work will be, too.

#### Pull Request Guidelines

- Ensure any install or build dependencies are removed before the end of the layer when doing a build.
- Update the README.md with details of changes to the interface, including new plist variables, exposed ports, useful file locations and container parameters.
- Ensure that your code conforms to our existing code conventions and test coverage.
- Include the relevant issue number, if applicable.
- You may merge the Pull Request in once you have the sign-off of two other developers, or if you do not have permission to do that, you may request the second reviewer to merge it for you.

### Attribution

These contribution guidelines have been adapted from [this good-Contributing.md-template](https://gist.github.com/PurpleBooth/b24679402957c63ec426).

## Documentation

See [Frontend Documentation](https://github.com/Lambda-School-Labs/signlingo-fe/blob/master/README.md) for details on the fronend of our project.

Commit message:

edited readme response body example modified

README.md, after:

[![Maintainability](https://api.codeclimate.com/v1/badges/9b3d0af20438824ee812/maintainability)](https://codeclimate.com/github/Lambda-School-Labs/signlingo-be/maintainability)  [![Test Coverage](https://api.codeclimate.com/v1/badges/9b3d0af20438824ee812/test_coverage)](https://codeclimate.com/github/Lambda-School-Labs/signlingo-be/test_coverage)

# Sign Lingo

## Table of Contents

- **[Overview](#overview)**<br>
- **[API Endpoints](#api-endpoints)**<br>
- **[Credits](#credits)**<br>

## <a name='overview'></a>Overview
This database allows users to login, register, and participate in american sign language flashcard lessons, exercises, and quizzes. Currently the only levels available are for the alphabet. <br>
- Type **yarn install** to download all deps<br>
- Type **nodemon index.js** to continously run dev env server (you will need to have nodemon installed globally -> "**npm install -g nodemon**"), we were having problems running nodemon locally<br>
- Back end is deployed to production (even thought it says staging in the name) at [Heroku](https://signlingo-staging.herokuapp.com/) <br>
- Data Base Schema is here: [DB SCHEMA](https://dbdesigner.page.link/iEg1SoCNyGXD7KEt6)<br>

## API Endpoints

### Authentication
Method | Endpoint | Body/Params (required) | Body (optional) | Notes
| ----- | ----------------- | -------------------- | --------------------- | ------------------ |
POST | /user/signup | okta access token | N/A | Finds user in database via okta_uid, or adds them to the database and initializes their levels. Returns the users okta_uid |

### Authentication Request and Response Body Examples

- **/user/signup** POST user -> request body example (okta access token)
```
{
    "accessToken": {
        "value": "eyJraWQiOiJsaThvR2dYNUNiTXQtcjdCb2ZvQkZUNEY2YlhXNUxyY1hkckRydFd2ME93IiwiYWxnIjoiUlMyNTYifQ.eyJ2ZXIiOjEsImp0aSI6IkFULlhyVzBOWGlTYXo3TkdFRkxYLWYtWFpJdThtUy0xUHJ3YkxZQVZkS0ctSUUiLCJpc3MiOiJodHRwczovL2Rldi0xMDcyODkub2t0YS5jb20vb2F1dGgyL2RlZmF1bHQiLCJhdWQiOiJhcGk6Ly9kZWZhdWx0IiwiaWF0IjoxNTkxOTgyODIxLCJleHAiOjE1OTE5ODY0MjEsImNpZCI6IjBvYWVudG92bUMyemtZeUZaNHg2IiwidWlkIjoiMDB1ZTc4ZWw0T2ZjNEg0N3A0eDYiLCJzY3AiOlsiZW1haWwiLCJwcm9maWxlIiwib3BlbmlkIl0sInN1YiI6ImphY2tzb24ub2dsZXMyOEBnbWFpbC5jb20ifQ.nPiPx5p80dFJpQGLLqGrvALS3qKefuta8wWYpjYBxA0bm_qLICgebJe2jgJxx90LcYMHM6UDvz6DFgBz6JXv38qchY-Mk-rraOAltwL9__o4sN1UU4IoB3_3a5xv5w-ffXqY87zypAXzejGZKHcy7CRurgkMM6J232XN08p8GktG3H1cUf23vJKFsnsPyU5kpEf9CJVwWgluA8ca3Nsuwovfg4cJq5U_FhYHt5OxOOAQe9pKPseKEnfOnMsldqRkcbSsNOony1IYbqzuZMcg40OMLDuifGFGs4AS9inW9Tr8DC6C-EcYJXmwtz6TQDOtMcysis9m4VA1xeCaGNw42g",
        "accessToken": "eyJraWQiOiJsaThvR2dYNUNiTXQtcjdCb2ZvQkZUNEY2YlhXNUxyY1hkckRydFd2ME93IiwiYWxnIjoiUlMyNTYifQ.eyJ2ZXIiOjEsImp0aSI6IkFULlhyVzBOWGlTYXo3TkdFRkxYLWYtWFpJdThtUy0xUHJ3YkxZQVZkS0ctSUUiLCJpc3MiOiJodHRwczovL2Rldi0xMDcyODkub2t0YS5jb20vb2F1dGgyL2RlZmF1bHQiLCJhdWQiOiJhcGk6Ly9kZWZhdWx0IiwiaWF0IjoxNTkxOTgyODIxLCJleHAiOjE1OTE5ODY0MjEsImNpZCI6IjBvYWVudG92bUMyemtZeUZaNHg2IiwidWlkIjoiMDB1ZTc4ZWw0T2ZjNEg0N3A0eDYiLCJzY3AiOlsiZW1haWwiLCJwcm9maWxlIiwib3BlbmlkIl0sInN1YiI6ImphY2tzb24ub2dsZXMyOEBnbWFpbC5jb20ifQ.nPiPx5p80dFJpQGLLqGrvALS3qKefuta8wWYpjYBxA0bm_qLICgebJe2jgJxx90LcYMHM6UDvz6DFgBz6JXv38qchY-Mk-rraOAltwL9__o4sN1UU4IoB3_3a5xv5w-ffXqY87zypAXzejGZKHcy7CRurgkMM6J232XN08p8GktG3H1cUf23vJKFsnsPyU5kpEf9CJVwWgluA8ca3Nsuwovfg4cJq5U_FhYHt5OxOOAQe9pKPseKEnfOnMsldqRkcbSsNOony1IYbqzuZMcg40OMLDuifGFGs4AS9inW9Tr8DC6C-EcYJXmwtz6TQDOtMcysis9m4VA1xeCaGNw42g",
        "expiresAt": 1591986423,
        "tokenType": "Bearer",
        "scopes": [
            "openid",
            "profile",
            "email"
        ],
        "authorizeUrl": "https://dev-107289.okta.com/oauth2/default/v1/authorize",
        "userinfoUrl": "https://dev-107289.okta.com/oauth2/default/v1/userinfo"
    }
}
```
- **/user/signup** POST user -> successful LOGIN response example
```
{
    "foundUser": true,
    "userFound": "Found the user already in users table",
    "foundit": [
        {
            "id": 7,
            "okta_uid": "00ue78el4Ofc4H47p4x6"
        }
    ],
    "okta_uid": "00ue78el4Ofc4H47p4x6"
}
```

### Levels
Method | Endpoint | Body/Params (required) | Body (optional) | Notes
| ----- | ----------------- | -------------------- | --------------------- | ------------------ |
GET | /levels | N/A | N/A | Returns all the levels in the database. |
GET | /:oktaUID | okta_uid in params | N/A | Returns all user_level table data for a particular user via okta_uid passed as param. |
POST | /:oktaUID | array of level id's to add, okta_uid in params | N/A | Adds missing levels to user account informed by levels ids inside levels array, and the okta_uid passed as params, this endpoint will only be reached if an old user logs in and is missing newly added levels in database |

### Levels Request and Response Body Examples

- **/levels** GET all levels in database -> successful response example
```
[
    {
        "id": 1,
        "name": "ABCDE"
    },
    {
        "id": 2,
        "name": "FGHIJ"
    },
    {
        "id": 3,
        "name": "KLMNO"
    },
    {
        "id": 4,
        "name": "PQRST"
    },
    {
        "id": 5,
        "name": "UVWXYZ"
    }
]
```

- **/:oktaUID** GET all user levels for single user -> successful response example 
```
[
    {
        "id": 4,
        "okta_uid": "00ue78el4Ofc4H47p4x6",
        "level_id": 1,
        "completed_flashcards": null,
        "completed_exercises": null,
        "completed_quiz": null
    },
    {
        "id": 5,
        "okta_uid": "00ue78el4Ofc4H47p4x6",
        "level_id": 2,
        "completed_flashcards": null,
        "completed_exercises": null,
        "completed_quiz": null
    },
    {
        "id": 6,
        "okta_uid": "00ue78el4Ofc4H47p4x6",
        "level_id": 5,
        "completed_flashcards": null,
        "completed_exercises": null,
        "completed_quiz": null
    },
    {
        "id": 7,
        "okta_uid": "00ue78el4Ofc4H47p4x6",
        "level_id": 3,
        "completed_flashcards": null,
        "completed_exercises": null,
        "completed_quiz": null
    },
    {
        "id": 8,
        "okta_uid": "00ue78el4Ofc4H47p4x6",
        "level_id": 4,
        "completed_flashcards": null,
        "completed_exercises": null,
        "completed_quiz": null
    }
]
```
- **/levels/:oktaUID** POST missing levels to user account -> Successful response body example
```
returns an array of user_level entry indexes added.
```

## Credits
### Project Manager
[Michael Famurewa](https://github.com/viscountfam)

### Full Stack Devs
[Jackson Ogles](https://github.com/cjogles) <br>
[Natalia Beckstead](https://github.com/NataliaBeckstead) <br>
[Bryan Bilek](https://github.com/bryanbilek) <br>
[Krisda Luengthada](https://github.com/biskoi) <br>

## Environment Variables

ISSUER<br>

## Contributing

When contributing to this repository, please first discuss the change you wish to make via issue, email, or any other method with the owners of this repository before making a change.

Please note we have a [code of conduct](./code_of_conduct.md). Please follow it in all your interactions with the project.

### Issue/Bug Request

 **If you are having an issue with the existing project code, please submit a bug report under the following guidelines:**

 - As of 5-26-2020 all code is up to date and working 100%.


### Feature Requests

 - Adding the ability to allow users to register/login via Google and Facebook.
 - Updating schema, I have provided a video and db design in the Signlingo channel.

### Pull Requests

If you have developed a patch, bug fix, or new feature that would improve this app, please submit a pull request. It is best to communicate your ideas with the developers first before investing a great deal of time into a pull request to ensure that it will mesh smoothly with the project.

Remember that this project is licensed under the MIT license, and by submitting a pull request, you agree that your work will be, too.

#### Pull Request Guidelines

- Ensure any install or build dependencies are removed before the end of the layer when doing a build.
- Update the README.md with details of changes to the interface, including new plist variables, exposed ports, useful file locations and container parameters.
- Ensure that your code conforms to our existing code conventions and test coverage.
- Include the relevant issue number, if applicable.
- You may merge the Pull Request in once you have the sign-off of two other developers, or if you do not have permission to do that, you may request the second reviewer to merge it for you.

### Attribution

These contribution guidelines have been adapted from [this good-Contributing.md-template](https://gist.github.com/PurpleBooth/b24679402957c63ec426).

## Documentation

See [Frontend Documentation](https://github.com/Lambda-School-Labs/signlingo-fe/blob/master/README.md) for details on the fronend of our project.
